Hello welcome back to the course on blotching.
So there's got an exciting tutorial going to be talking about the immutable léger property of blockades.
All right so here's our map and previously we spoke about cryptography and so we can check that off.
And today moving on to the immutable Ledger.
So what is the immutable laser.
Well to start off let's have a look at where we left off last hour.
This is where we left off.
We discuss that in a block chain.
Blocks are cryptographically linked together and that's where the chain is actually formed.
And we discussed how that works.
So today let's look at an example.
Let's say you want to go and buy a house.
And so you have money might be a pile of cash or most likely just money in the bank and then you take
that money and you go and pay for your dream home.
So what do you get in exchange in exchange you actually get the home.
But how do you know that you have the home.
How do how can you prove to someone else that that's your home.
Like why can't you just go up to any house on the street and say that that's your home.
Well because in exchange for that money what you get is a deed a title deed to the house and whoever
has the deed is the owner of the home.
So what you need to do the deed is you need to take it to a government authority such as a local council
or the city council or some other authority to them they might differ.
So there it is.
You take the deed there and you register your ownership you show them the deed and you say this is now
my house I paid money for it.
And I would like to register that it is my home.
So that's like a simplified explanation of what happens I'm not an expert in property.
So there might be some experts listening to this and I'd be laughing at how miserable this is.
But this drives the point home you need to register your ownership with the local authority.
And so how do they register.
Well usually they write it down in the ledger but usually they always write it down in a ledger and
in some cases some modern governments more modern governments they use digital ledgers.
But the interesting thing is and I was very surprised to learn this myself that still a huge percentage
of governments especially in not like not in the first world countries and third world countries they
still use written letters.
So actual physical books and in fact not not just in all countries even in first world countries in
many cases it's still a physical book like a notepad with numerate pages where people just write down
who owns what and then what it's about once it runs out they put into the archives they get a new one
and then they start a new page and so on.
And so as you can imagine this this is it.
This is all you have you you have the title deed which you know you need to hope to keep safe that you
will lose it or you will burn somewhere and you have this little tiny entry in a book somewhere in a
building that belongs to the government where it says you own the house.
What if that building burns down or what if somebody steals that book or what if somebody wants to come
along and hack that book.
And we don't even have to use the word hack because it's a book.
They just go in and they're about the page and they glue in a different page where everything is the
same except for your entry which they changed.
And then what does that mean.
Well that means that all of a sudden you don't have the house anymore like physically you might still
be living in the house and you might think it's yours.
But in reality just because that one line of information has been erased from a book somewhere in the
government authority all of a sudden you don't actually have the house and it's even if it's not a book
even if it's an electronic document like an Excel spreadsheet.
How difficult is it for somebody to go into an Excel spreadsheet and just change one line.
So it's very easy still.
Right so.
And in fact a lot of people actually live like that a lot like they are tons and tons of errors in property
title type property titles in like in these databases and people live in their home they think they
have the home.
But in reality it's actually not theirs anymore just because of some error or some somebody messing
up a fuss.
So now comes into college watching how can we fix this situation.
Well let's say we have all of these titles stored in a block chain rather than on the paper or in a
Excel spreadsheet or a database.
Let's say we have them so every single title every time somebody buys something or sells a house it's
a new blog that's added to this chain and it's even OK that we're not even talking about distributing
decentralise.
Yet this whole block chain can be stored like very simplistically like in that govern facility even
that's really better.
And so every time you can see like we've really there's already been some transactions in this block
chain and then it's your turn.
You buy a house.
And so you add in each transaction and then a couple of months the months pass by or a couple of years
pass by and then somebody comes along and decides to take your home away from you by tampering with
the data in the block.
And they also realize that home and they want to report that page of the book but they get into the
facility and they see that it's actually not a book.
It's a whole block chain.
OK.
So that's you know that's a challenge but might be solvable.
But what's happened in those past couple of months or years is that more property transactions have
happened so people bought properties or sold properties and all of those are also record in the ledger.
And now so if this person tries to tamper with the data in that specific block then what happens is
that will change the hash of this block.
And what that means is this cryptographic link will no longer work because the hash here is different
to the hash recorded here for the previous block so we have the previous year the field previous hash
it will no longer match this one.
So this person would have to change this lock as well.
But as soon as they change this blog this blog called match this one and they have to change this one
as well.
And as soon as they change it this one or this one and so on so because of this cryptographically.
As soon as they change one block all of the blocks after that will no longer be valid they will longer
be connected to the chain.
It would be very easy to tell that very hard for the person to tamper with the record.
So unlike in the book where they can just change one entry here they would have to change the all of
the entries following yours.
And that's what we mean when we say that it's an immutable nature because you cannot change data as
soon as data has gone into the box.
It's very very difficult like at this stage we can see it's very difficult and that's when we just have
the block installed in this government authority.
Well we talked about peer to peer distributed networks.
You'll see that it's practically impossible to change a single block in the chain simply because the
way it's structured because more and more components are added.
So the longer the more time passes the harder it becomes to change and eventually becomes practically
impossible.
OK so that's what I mean an immutable Ledger is.
And I also wanted to point out here that this is not just an example pulled out of air.
This is one of the biggest coded examples of property Leger's is one of the biggest examples.
When people talk about blushing outside of finance outside of Bitcoin outside of other coins and crypto
currencies and CEOs and things like that why is it such a big example.
Well to start off with this whole problem of lechers right that these layers are so like archaic it's
so unreliable to keep information there.
And here's some other fun facts.
For example remember when the financial crisis that we had in 2008.
Well Bank of America was going to places like you know close mortgages for foreclosures and because
this is so unreliable.
They actually ended up coming to properties where they didn't actually have a mortgage they hadn't made
a mortgage given a mortgage the person or the the business for that property and they tried to foreclose
properties which they had no right to foreclose simply because how bad these ledgers are.
Another example is in height in Haiti or tight tight.
Well basically in entirety it's practically impossible to know whose property you're living on who which
property belongs to whom because of all of the natural disasters they have there.
Like all of these hurricanes that come through and you know just wipe out not just the properties but
like the government facilities and all of these ledgers unfortunately get destroyed.
And so it's really impossible to tell for many properties who actually belongs to what the historical
transactions were of that.
And plus on top of that like with any government there can be corruption there can be other factors
that influence that.
And so is it it is become a huge problem there.
Another example is that the world bank estimates that about 70 percent of the population of the world
don't have access to proper titles and to proper facilities that can register titles and title deeds
and that's also of course in third world countries.
But still that's that's a huge problem that's the problem that blotching can solve that this to console
and Tryphena shovel won't give you one example.
One more example.
This is an example from the U.K. So it's directly from the government of the U.K. website.
This is how many transactions so property and this is not commercial property this is private property
transactions that are residential property transactions that happen in the UK per month.
So you can see there's a there's the blues the values and the red is the seasonally adjusted so about
100000 transactions per month happen in the UK.
And I know you'll say you'll say what if these are like tiny transactions you know somebody paid you
know 10 pounds here and there.
Well no actually this data is for transactions that are £40000 or above only.
So only the only thing that's above £40000 went into this data set.
So as you can imagine hundred 100000 transactions per month which what does that make it.
That's hot that's about 3000 just over 3000 transactions per day or a hundred and forty of transactions
per hour.
Or if you even do it further it's like one transaction every SEC every 30 seconds so this tutorials
been going on for like almost 10 minutes I was hearing.
And so like in the time that we've been talking here 20 transactions have happened in the U.K. for 40000
pounds and about.
So can you imagine like 3000 transactions being recorded into these ledgers every single day.
Inevitably they are going to be errors somewhere.
And that means you know people's title deeds titles are not going to be recorded properly and that can
cause issues down the track and that can all be solved with technology with block chain.
And that's why governments are considering moving things like their title deeds management to block
change.
And I think that's one of the first places we'll see that happen.
And it's not only about Title these this can also be applied to things like diamonds.
That's another big use case you know because with diamonds you also need to track who boarded where
it came from who sold it and all the transactions related to it.
So you can see what's happening.
So like physical tracking of assets wherever we are currently using ledgers this we can move to blocking.
So there we go that's an immutable ledger and those are the benefits some use cases.
I've got a great article for you for today.
I really loved reading through this one.
This is called the blockade economy and beginners guide to institutional crypto economics has got almost
10000 claps on medium suits.
It's very popular.
Have a look.
I really enjoyed it.
It talks about a lot of these things and how they can impact our economy and what this means for the
future of governments future of society and the things that we're going to be doing.
So check it out.
Great article and hope you enjoyed today's tutorial.
I look forward to seeing you next time.
Until then enjoy abortions.